feat(router): update intro, installation, and add linking doc (#23153)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/advance/shared-routes.mdx

---
title: Shared routes
description: Learn how to define shared routes or use arrays to use the same route multiple times with different layouts using Expo Router.
hideFromSearch: true
---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

> You can prevent a segment from showing in the URL by using the group syntax `()`.
> 
> - **app/root/home.js** which matches `/root/home`
> - **app/(root)/home.js** which matches `/home`
> 
> This is useful for adding layouts without adding additional segments to the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can prevent a segment from showing in the URL using the group syntax `()`. This is useful for adding layouts without adding additional segments to the URL.

- **app/root/home.js** which matches `/root/home`
- **app/(root)/home.js** which matches `/home`
```

Let's define why the usage of the group syntax is useful in the first line instead of breaking the flow. Often times, people are skimming through docs and easy to miss after the bullet points.

## Shared routes

To match the same URL with different layouts, use **groups** with overlapping child routes. This pattern is very common in native apps. For example, in the Twitter app, a profile can be viewed in every tab (such as home, search, and profile). However, there is only one URL that is required to access this route.

In the example below, **app/\_layout.js** is the tab bar and each route has its own header. The **app/(profile)/[user].js** route is shared between each tab.

<FileTree
  files={[
    'app/_layout.js',
    'app/(home)/_layout.js',
    'app/(home)/[user].js',
    'app/(search)/_layout.js',
    'app/(search)/[user].js',
    'app/(profile)/_layout.js',
    'app/(profile)/[user].js',
  ]}
/>

> > When reloading the page, the first match (alphabetically) will be rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When reloading the page, the first alphabetical match is rendered.
```

Shared routes can be navigated directly by including the group name in the route. For example, `/(search)/baconbrix` navigates to `/baconbrix` in the "search" layout.

## Arrays

> Array syntax is an advanced concept that is unique to native app development.

> Instead of defining the same route multiple times with different layouts, use the array syntax `(,)` to duplicate the children of a group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of defining the same route multiple times with different layouts, use the array syntax `(,)` to duplicate the children of a group. For example, `app/(home,search)/[user].js` &mdash; creates `app/(home)/[user].js` and `app/(search)/[user].js` in memory.
```

Since this is a single bullet point, we can have the item as a text with on-going text.

> - `app/(home,search)/[user].js` -- creates `app/(home)/[user].js` and `app/(search)/[user].js` in memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Distinguishing between the two routes using the `segment` prop of a layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To distinguish between the two routes use a layout's `segment` prop:
```

> ```js title="app/(home,search)/_layout.js"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js app/(home,search)/_layout.js
```
